# Gameshow-Scoreboard
## What is it?
A program to complement the gameshow-inspired competition developed by Paul Fonstad, Ph.D, Franklin College. 
## How to use it?
Before using the program, not that you will need to have exported your game slides as .jpg images. Once you have these images, fire up the .jar file. 

## The *Edit* tab
The program will open into the edit tab. If this is your first time using the program, begin by adding slides. Click *Insert Slide* to open up a file dialog. Navigate to the .jpg images of your slides, and click the first one. This will load the slide into the editor. Note that the default settings will be applied. *Slide Type* will be set to regular (meaning that the slide has a point value) and the *Value*, meaning the number of points a slide is worth, will default to 1. Change these as appropriate, but be sure to click the appropriate *OK* button after a change to ensure the change is commited to the slide. 

After adding your first slide, you will note that the editor says *Slide 2 of 2*. There is a dummy placeholder initial slide. Click *Previous* to see the blank slide, and click *Delete Slide* to remove the empty slide. Note that the editor now indicates *Slide 1 of 1*. Continue to add slides individually, changing *Slide Type* and *Value* as appropriate. Once you are finished, move to the *Settings* tab to save your game for future use. 

## The *Settings* tab
The Settings tab allows you to change the *Foreground Color (Text)* which changes the text color on the presentation window. The *Background Color* changes the color behind the slide image and text on the presentation window. To save a game, click the *Save Current Setup* button. Choose a safe place to save and name the file. Note that the images you have loaded into the game should be saved in the resulting file, meaning that, in theory, the game should run regaurdless of the state of the original jpg files. Once you have saved your file feel free to close out of the program. When you need to open a game (.gam) file, reopen the program, switch to the *Settings* tab, and click *Load Setup*. Your slides with slide with images, scores, and values will be loaded, along with the background and foreground colors at time of loading. **Please note:** there is a bug that when loading previous games the *Types* choice in the *Edit Game* tab becomes a bit buggy when displaying the slide type. This is a known bug, and the underlying functionality regarding slide types seems unaffected. After loading a previous game, when ready to present it, move to the *Run Game* tab.

## The *Run Game* tab
The run game tab is intended to be the screen from which you can present a game. Note the *Player n Name* and *Institution* fields. Type in the desired values. The corresponding changes will be shown on the *Presentation Window*. This is the secondary window, which is intented to be displayed on the secondary monitor or projector that the audience will see. To move slides forward or backward, click the *Next Slide* and *Previous Slide* buttons. This will advance/regress slides. Note the green and red buttons *+* and *-1* buttons. Pressing these will change the score of the corresponding player. The red button will always read "-1", but the green button will change to correspond to the slide value (e.g. if the slide has a value of 5, the green button will say *+5*). Each player's score is displayed across from their name. Note that currently the *hide* button is **not** functional. Also note that the *Hide Slide* button is also currently non-functional. 
